Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
T IME TO D RAW S TEEL !
Road to Broadhurst is a short, modular adventure for Draw
Steel. It’s written for three to six 1st-level heroes and a
Director. This free adventure comes with pregenerated
heroes and is meant to introduce new players to Draw Steel.
The Director should be familiar with the Draw Steel core
rules found in Draw Steel: Heroes and Draw Steel: Monsters.
This adventure can be run online on a virtual tabletop or in-
person at conventions, game stores, libraries, community
centers, homes, and anywhere else roleplaying games are
played. It can also serve as a lead in to The Delain Tomb
adventure for Draw Steel.
S ET UP
Before starting the adventure, give each player a copy of
the Draw Steel Rules Reference and allow the players to look
over the pregenerated heroes and select one (or allow them
to create their own hero using the Draw Steel: Heroes core
rulebook if they have the time and access to it). Each player
needs a miniature or virtual token to represent their hero
and a way to roll dice.
MAPS
Maps have been included for combat encounters, which
should be played out using tokens and miniatures on a grid.
Each combat encounter ncludes a map that shows the
starting positions of enemies and a start area where players
can place their heroes’ tokens.
H OW MUCH TIME YOU GOT ?
This adventure can be run as a 1-hour, 2-hour, 3-hour, or 4-
hour experience:
• A 1-hour experience: Run only Rat Raiders
• A 2-hour experience: Run Rat Raiders and Days of Rain
• A 3-hour experience: Run Rat Raiders, Days of Rain,
and Cattywampus
• A 4-hour experience: Run the entire adventure.
E NCOUNTER , N EGOTIATION, AND M ONTAGE SHEETS
Each combat encounter, negotiation, and montage test detailed in
this adventure also has a sheet that goes along with it to help you
run things more smoothly at the table.
THE S TORY S O F AR
A virulent goatpox has struck the local goat population in
Broadhurst. No one in the small farming village has the
knowhow or the resources to fix the problem. But an
enterprising trio in the nearby town of Wend has a solution.
Torrance, a merchant with a bleeding heart, is originally
from Broadhurst, and his family goat farm is the epicenter
of this pox. He’s teamed up with his once teenaged
paramour from the same hometown, an eccentric but
brilliant alchemist named Myrna and her husband Hector, a
penny-pinching herbalist. The latter two have brewed a
medicine that cures the pox. Torrance has a sturdy
merchant’s cart and an old nag that could make the journey
to Broadhust. There’s been rumors of bandit raids and
goblin attacks on the road, so they also need some guards.
KICKING THINGS OFF
Give the players the following bulleted information. When
you see information presented in bullet points with
quotation marks around it, that information is meant to be
shared with the players through reading or paraphrasing it
aloud.
• “You were hired just over a day ago to protect this
wagon, carrying valuable medicine, on its journey west
from Wend to Broadhurst.”
• “Torrance, the bleeding-heart merchant, ducks into the
wagon seat while Myrna, the brilliant alchemist, and
Hector, the miserly herbalist, lock themselves in the
back.”
• “Tell us what everyone is looking at. Who are you? Tell us
your name, ancestry, class, and a bit about what they
look like, their personality, and why they chose to
become a hero.”
Have each player introduce their hero. Some might choose
to do so in the third person. Others might get into character
and act like their hero making an introduction. Either
approach or anything in between is great. Whatever makes
the players most comfortable.
DALRATH
Wend and Broadhurst are in the barony of Dalrath, ruled by the
benevolent Lord Kenway. An occasional monster or threat of war
emerges from the wodes and mountains that surround the
barony, but most folks in the region live simple, mundane lives.
Dalrath is part of Vasloria, a continent on the world of Orden.
This adventure takes place entirely on the road from Wend to
Broadhurst, so you can feel free to change the world where these
villages are set to suit your needs.
MEDICINE W AGON
The wagon the heroes guard uses the following rules, which
is on the Medicine Wagon handout you should give to the
players.
• The wagon has three weight classifications, each defined
how many crates it holds. Holding 0-1 crates is light, 2-4
crates is medium, and 5 or more crates is heavy.
• The wagon starts with 5 medicine crates.
• If a hero holding a crate takes damage, the crate is
destroyed instead.
• The wagon has 30 Stamina.
If the wagon loses all of its crates, the group who hired the
heroes wish to press on to Broadhurst and plan to make
new medicine while there at the village.
P ART 1: R AT R AIDERS
After the players introduce their heroes, give them the
following information:
• “FWIP! An arrow pierces the side of the medicine wagon!
The rain pours down in sheets, but the sudden sound of a
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
pan pipe whips up over the din and they emerge—
threatening shapes slicked with mud.”
• “Your wagon is mired in the mud and carries five heavy
crates of valuable medicine. It’s sunk too deep to move,
and you may need to lighten the load.’”
• “The bandits, as they draw closer, have tails and
elongated, furry faces—ratfolk.”
• “From inside the wagon, hector peeps, ‘Don’t let them
steal any medicine. We at least need to break even on
this trip!’”
The bandits are radenwights, acrobatic, highly coordinated,
and devious ratfolk. They are led by Tix, a radenwight
maestro. He has eight radenwight mischievers, eight
radenwight swiftpaws, and eight radenwight redeyes
with him.
• The radenwights are after whatever’s in that wagon.
They have no interest in killing, but attempt to subdue
those who stand in their way.
• The mischievers and swiftpaws will attempt to steal
crates of medicine from the wagon.
This encounter uses the Rainy Road map.
Rat Raiders Groups
Group Creatures
1 Four radenwight mischievers (minion group)
Four radenwight mischievers (minion group)
2 Four radenwight swiftpaws (minion group)
Four radenwight swiftpaws (minion group)
3 Four radenwight redeyes (minion group)
Four radenwight redeyes (minion group)
4 One radenwight maestro
ENCOUNTER ADJUSTMENTS
If this encounter has more or fewer than five heroes, make
the following adjustments:
• For six heroes, add four radenwight mischievers.
• For four heroes, remove four radenwight michievers.
• For three heroes, remove four radenwight michievers
and four radenwight swiftpaws.
UNHEROIC TRIO
The trio that hired the heroes isn’t much help in a fight, and
the radenwights don’t consider them a threat. They’ve
hidden in the wagon. Hoping their money was well spent.
TACTICS
During the first round, the mischievers and swiftpaws use
Rat Race to get close to the heroes and attempt to
overwhelm and surround the cart while stealing crates. The
redeyes attack heroes trying to recover stolen crates. Tix
stays near the edge of the battlefield, enhancing his
minions, starting with his Overture villain action. He keeps
a few minions close by so he can take advantage of Rat
Rondo.
At the start of the second round of combat, the hidden
mischeivers group emerges from the woods,
attempting to steal crates. The minions attempt to keep
the heroes contained while they take advantage of Ready
Rodent to whittle them down.
ENDING THE ENCOUNTER
The encounter ends when the radenwights have escaped
the map with three crates or the heroes kill Tix, after which
the remaining radenwights flee. If the heroes kill Tix before
the radenwights steal three crates, each hero gains 1
Victory. If they kill Tix before any crates are stolen, each
hero gains an additional 1 Victory.
FLEEING FOES
If the heroes wish to give chase at the end of an encounter when
their foes flee, any attempt ends in failure as the heroes are
bogged down in mud and rain while they scurry into hidden
warrens beneath the ground.
A GOOD I NVESTMENT
As Torrance, Myrna, and Hector emerge from the wagon,
Myrna teases Hector, about not wanting to spend money on
guards. Hector is still skeptical, asking the heroes,“ Did we
lose any crates?” He’s relieved if the answer is no. If the
answer is yes, he grumbles that they could lose their shop.
R ADENWIGHT M ALICE M ALICE FEATURES
At the start of any radenwight’s turn, you can spend malice to activate
one of the following features.
Trouser Cut (Main Action) (Non-minion) ◆ 2d10 +2 ◆ 3 Malice
Keywords Melee, Strike, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature
✦ ≤11 7 damage; push 3
★ 12–16 10 damage; push 3; taunted (EoT)
✸ 17+ 13 damage; push 5; taunted (EoT)
Effect If a target is wearing clothing covering the lower half of
their body, they must use a maneuver to pull that clothing up
before they can move.
Rat Race ◆ 5 Malice
Each radenwight shifts up to their speed. Wherever a radenwight
ends this movement adjacent to at least one other radenwight,
they can make a melee free strike against each adjacent enemy.
Rally the Rodents ◆ 7 Malice
A radenwight uses music to coordinate rats to form a 10 wall of
living rats scurrying atop one another into unoccupied spaces
anywhere on the encounter map. The wall doesn’t block line of
effect for radenwights and their allies, but it does for other
creatures, as the rats coordinate their movements with the
radenwights. Each square of the wall has 10 Stamina. If the last
radenwight in the encounter dies and the wall is still standing, the
rats let out a hideous screech as they disperse. Each enemy on the
encounter map makes an Intuition test.
✸ ≤11 7 sonic damage; target can’t take a respite activity
during their next respite
★ 12–16 5 sonic damage
✦ 17+ No effect
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
R ADENWIGHT M ISCHIEVER LEVEL 1 M INION AMBUSHER
Humanoid, Radenwight EV 3 for four minions
Stamina 4
Speed 7 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 0
With Captain Strike damage +1 Free Strike 2
Might −1 Agility +2 Reason +0 Intuition +1 Presence +0
Dagger Dance (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ Signature
Keywords Melee, Strike, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 or Ranged 5 Target One creature per minion
✦ ≤11 2 damage
★ 12–16 4 damage
✸ 17+ 5 damage
Effect If the mischiever is hidden when they use this ability, they
can target two creatures.
Ready Rodent (Triggered Action)
Keywords Melee, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature
Trigger An ally deals damage to the target.
Effect The mischiever makes a free strike against the target.
R ADENWIGHT SWIFTPAW LEVEL 1 M INION HARRIER
Humanoid, Radenwight EV 3 for four minions
Stamina 4
Speed 7 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 0
With Captain Edge on strikes Free Strike 1
Might +0 Agility +2 Reason +1 Intuition +0 Presence −1
Rapier Flunge (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ Signature
Keywords Melee, Strike, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature or object per minion
✦ ≤11 1 damage; slide 1; shift 1
★ 12–16 2 damage; slide 2; shift 2
✸ 17+ 3 damage; slide 3; shift 3
Ready Rodent (Triggered Action)
Keywords Melee, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature
Trigger An ally deals damage to the target.
Effect The swiftpaw makes a free strike against the target.
R ADENWIGHT R EDEYE LEVEL 1 M INION ARTILLERY
Humanoid, Radenwight EV 3 for four minions
Stamina 3
Speed 5 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 0
With Captain Edge on strikes Free Strike 2
Might +1 Agility +2 Reason −1 Intuition +0 Presence +0
Eyes-On-Me Shot (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ Signature
Keywords Ranged, Strike, Weapon
Distance Ranged 10 Target One creature or object per minion
✦ ≤11 2 damage
★ 12–16 4 damage
✸ 17+ 5 damage
Effect An ally of the redeye within 2 squares of the target can shift
up to 2 squares.
Ready Rodent (Triggered Action)
Keywords Melee, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature
Trigger An ally deals damage to the target.
Effect The redeye makes a free strike against the target.
R ADENWIGHT M AESTRO LEVEL 1 LEADER
Humanoid, Radenwight EV 12
Stamina 80
Speed 5 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 1
Free Strike 4
Might −2 Agility +2 Reason +0 Intuition +0 Presence +3
Cacophony (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 3 ◆ Signature
Keywords Area, Magic
Distance 5 burst Target All enemies in the burst
✦ ≤11 3 sonic damage; slide 1; shift 1
★ 12–16 6 sonic damage; slide 3; shift 3
✸ 17+ 8 sonic damage; slide 5; shift 5
Effect Each ally within distance can use Ready Rodent as a free
triggered action once before the end of the round.
Tempo Change (Maneuver) ◆ 2d10 + 3
Keywords Magic, Ranged
Distance Ranged 10 Target Two enemies
✦ ≤11 P<1 Slowed (save ends)
★ 12–16 P<2 Slowed (save ends)
✸ 17+ P<3 Slowed (save ends)
3 Malice Each ally within 3 of a target has their speed increased
by 2 until the end of their next turn.
Ever Ready Rodent (Free Triggered Action) ◆ 2 Malice
Keywords Magic, Melee, Ranged
Distance Ranged 5 Target One creature
Trigger The target deals damage to an ally or takes damage from
an ally.
Effect The maestro makes a free strike against the target.
End Effect
At the end of their turn, the maestro can take 5 damage to end
one save ends effect affecting them. This damage can’t be reduced
in any way.
Overture (Villain Action 1)
Keywords Area
Distance 10 burst Target All allies in the burst
Effect Each target shifts up to their speed or takes the Defend
main action.
Solo Act (Villain Action 2)
Keywords Ranged
Distance Ranged 15 Target One creature
Effect Until the end of their next turn, the target halves incoming
damage, deals an additional 4 damage on strikes, and their
speed is doubled.
Rondo of Rat (Villain Action 3)
Keywords Area
Distance 10 burst Target All dead allies in the burst
Effect Each target stands, makes a free strike, then collapses
again. Allies of the targets can use Ready Rodent as a free
triggered action once in conjunction with these free strikes.
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
F REEING THE W AGON
Before the journey can continue, Torrance asks the heroes
to get the wagon unstuck. Any hero helping free the wagon
should make a Might test. The hero who gets the highest
result determines the outcome for the group. If the wagon
is heavy they take a bane on the roll. If the wagon is light
they gain an edge on the roll.
• ≤11: The wagon is freed, but a crate is dropped and
destroyed in the process.
• 12-16: The wagon is freed.
• 17+: The wagon is quickly freed and the next hero to
make a power roll gains an edge on the test.
P ART 2: D AYS OF R AIN
The heroes have days of travel ahead with no relief from
the weather. They have to help keep the cart moving to get
to Broadhurst in time to save some goats.
MONTAGE TEST : KEEP
MOVING
The heroes must perform a montage test to keep the wagon
moving, forage the forest for supplies, and prevent any
potential threats from manifesting. The success and failure
limits of this test are listed on the Keep Moving Test
Difficulty table.
KEEP MOVING T EST D IFFICULTY
Heroes Success Limit Failure Limit
Three 3 3
Four 4 4
Five 5 5
Six 6 6
SETTING THE SCENE
• “The rain is still coming down in sheets, soaking
everyone, the road is littered with debris, the horse is
exhausted, you need dry spots to camp, and spirits are
low.”
• “Myrna was also hoping to gather some herbs to make
more medicine for the goats along the journey, making
foraging another priority.”
• “To make matters worse, the wagon’s wheels are
cracking on the rough road and there’s an occasional
farmer crossing cows across the road.”
M ONTAGE CHALLENGES
The following challenges can be part of the montage test:
Find Shelter: The wagon has plenty of camping supplies,
but the heroes need a dry patch or creative solution to
pitch a tent and start a fire. Suggested Characteristics:
Reason, Intuition. Suggested Skills: Nature, Navigate,
Search.
Revive Horses: The horse need encouragement, and
proper pacing and care to keep going. Suggested
Characteristics: Intuition, Presence. Suggested Skills:
Cooking, Handle Animals, Nature.
Forage for Herbs: Finding the right herbs for the medicine
and avoiding the poisonous ones is a tricky affair.
Suggested Characteristics: Agility, Reason. Suggested
Skills: Alchemy, Alertness, Nature, Search.
Deal with Cow Crossing: Herds of cattle slowly making
their way across the heroes’ path. They need to hurry the
cows along without a stampede to avoid sinking into the
mud. Suggested Characteristics: Intuition, Presence
Suggested Skills: Handle Animals, Intimidation, Lead
Fix Wheel: The wagon has a cracked wheel. If repaired, it
moves faster. Suggested Characteristics: Might, Reason.
Suggested Skills: Blacksmithing, Carpentry, Mechanics.
Clear Fallen Trees: Fallen trees on the road must be
cleared for the wagon to pass. Suggested Characteristics:
Might, Reason. Suggested Skills: Carpentry, Endurance,
Lift.
Raise Spirits: Torrance, Myrna, and Hector are moving at
the speed of their dour move. A little encouragement gets
them moving faster. Suggested Characteristics: Intuition,
Presence. Suggested Skills: Lead, Music, Perform.
M ONTAGE TEST O UTCOMES
The montage test has the following outcomes:
Total Success: The heroes made it through a tough journey
without much problem and managed to gather some
extra medicine in the process. The heroes earn 1 Victory
each. The wagon gains 2 crates.
Partial Success: There were some good days of travel and
some truly awful ones. The wagon gains 1 crate, but each
hero loses 1 Recovery, or the wagon takes 5 damage.
Total Failure: The journey was truly awful and the wagon
is in worse shape. The wagon loses 1 crate or the wagon
takes 5 damage, and the heroes lose 1 Recovery.
H ORRIFYING R ELIEF
The weather breaks, giving the heroes some temporary
relief and a chance to interact with the Torrance, Myrna,
and Hector.
• Torrance is steely in his resolve, practically ready to give
the medicine away at this point. He just wants to help.
“My folks are really hurting. I’m sure we can spare a crate
for them.”
• Myrna is the only one having a good time. She loves
getting down and dirty in the mud. “I’m used to being
covered with grime and soot, so this is a welcome
change!”
• Hector is regretting this entire fool’s errand and is
constantly complaining. “I’m sorry about your family,
Torrance, but be should’ve never left Wend. We’re going
to be ruined if we don’t end up dead first.”
H AG STORY
If you’re running part 3 of this adventure, run this interlude
to set up that section. You can skip this interlude if you
don’t plan to run part 3.
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
As the heroes camp, Torrance challenges them to tell the
best ghost story around the campfire. After one or two
heroes offer up a scary story, Torrance shares a local
legend, about an old witch that lives in the woods they are
traveling through.
• “’Her name is Catty Goutfinger,’ says Torrance. ‘She’s 14
feet tall with fingers like spears and teeth as long and
grey as nails. She wears a necklace made of living eyes
and a dress made from clacking fingerbones. And she
keeps two hundred cats as pets.’”
• “’The village of Khashton (Hah-uhsh-ton) had a rat
problem. Food was blighted, people were sickened, crops
were devoured. Their people cried out to the gods, but
none answered. They weren’t listening. But someone
heard them.’”
• “Myrna interrupts him, claiming that Catty is just an old
wive’s tale to keep kids out of the woods at night.
Torrance insists that she’s real.”
• “After the brief exchange, Torrance continues his tale.
‘One night a great fog rolled in. Then the cats came.
Dozens of them. Then hundreds. That’s when the
massacre started.’”
• “’The rat blood flowed like rivers though the streets of
Khashton. But the next morning, when the villagers saw
the massacred rodents, they cried foul. And when Catty
showed up to collect what was due, they drove her out of
town.’”
• “’Catty warned them, but they insist they didn’t ask for
her help. She countered that they asked anyone for help.
And she helped. She would have what’s hers.’”
• “’The townsfolk tried to appeal to her sense of fairness,
insisting that helping folks down on their luck was the
right thing to do.’”
• “’This plea for justice fell on deaf ears, and was the
tipping point that ended Khashton. She left. But the cat’s
stayed. They say they’re the only residents left of
Khashton, them and the bleached bones of the
townsfolk.’”
• “Hector pipes up, ‘What did she ask for? What was her
price?’”
• “Torrance looks puzzled. ‘To be honest, no one ever
knew that part of the story.’ Myrna snorts, ‘Yeah, because
it’s all poppycock. I heard a version where she turned
everyone in the town into ratfolk. It’s preposterous.’”
Catty does, in fact, reside in these woods. The rest of his
facts are specious at best—except about the cats.
Once you’ve told the story of Catty Goutfinger, if no one else
has any stories to tell, you can continue to part 3.
P ART 3: C ATTYWAMPUS
This portion of the journey has the heroes negotiating for
safe passage through the woods with an enterprising hag,
who sees paydirt in those medicine crates and wants them
for herself.
• “The wagon enters a dense wood right around sunset. as
a thick fog rolls in. Torrance seems on edge, while Myrna
is dismissive of his concerns about hags”
• “The forest is oddly silent, other than soft buzzing sound
almost like a cat’s purr. After about an hour the wagon
comes to a stop at a crossroads with a rickety sign
pointing in four directions. All of them, read
‘Broadhurst.’”
No matter which direction they go they end up back at the
crossroads after about an hour. Read or paraphrase the
following aloud:
• “As you approach the crossroads yet again you start to
see cats trailing the wagon at the edge of the fog.”
• “A tall and spindly woman, with skin hanging off her
elongated bones stands under the sign. Despite the
patina of filth covering her, her clothes are exquisitely
designed fashion from a bygone era. She’s not quite the
terrifying vision described by Torrance, but there is an
air of calculating menace about her.”
• “She locks eyes with you, one by one, and with a buttery,
smooth voice she says, ‘Sweet children, you’re looking
lost. Are you lost?’”
CATTY GOUTFINGER
The legends are true! Mostly. Catty appreciates the air of
mystique the stories about her provide, but she’s so old that
she can’t really remember which ones are actually true.
Catty loves nothing more than to bargain, but she only
cares if the stakes are life, death, or permanent injury
because those are good motivators. And she likes a
motivated negotiator. They’re more easily plied. The
goatpox in Broadhurst presents a unique opportunity to
bring an entire town under her peculiar brand of
protection. But so far, she’s been unsuccessful in creating a
cure. She can smell the medicine on the cart, and she wants
it. And once she has it, the farmers of Broadhurst will have
no choice but to deal with her.
NEGOTIATING FOR PASSAGE
Catty offers to lead the heroes through the fog for a price.
She wants those crates, and she doesn’t want to hear any
sob stories or pleas for fairness. The medicine is getting to
Broadhurst either way, but only through Catty if she gets
her way.
If the heroes refuse to negotiate with Catty or attack her,
she cackles and retreats into the mist, leaving them alone.
They must navigate the fog in a montage test instead.
C ATTY G OUTFINGER NEGOTIATION STATS
Interest: 2 • Patience: 3 • Impression: 2
Native Language: Yllric
Motivations
• Power: She’s usually called in to clear a child’s flu or mend a
horse’s broken limb. Small potatoes. This goatpox affects the
entire village and would put her in a unique position to bring its
entire population under her influence. Arguments that provide
options for her to feel powerful without losing face appeal to
this motivation.
• Protection: Catty relies on the people of Broadhurst to make
her deals and gain knowledge and power. She wants to keep
the village intact. If the heroes argue that their delivery of the
medicine is better for the overall health of the village or make a
similar argument, they appeal to this motivation.
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
Pitfalls
Justice: Catty has no sense of fairness or justice at all. Even
appealing to it is insulting. She has far more respect for those that
outwit or out bargain her than anyone pleading for fairness. If the
heroes try to appeal to her sense of fairness or morality, they run
afoul of this pitfall.
As the heroes make arguments to Illwyth, she responds
based on her interest:
• Interest 5: Catty is so impressed with their arguments
that she offers to escort the heroes out of the woods, free
of charge. She also throws in a Mirror Token and a
Thunderhead Cloud (see Treasures). She gives a warning.
“Goblins have been terrorizing the lands around
Broadhurst for some time now. If they weren’t such good
customers, I’d consider getting rid of them.”
• Interest 4: Catty is impressed. She hasn’t come out on
the bottom of a negotiation in quite a while. She agrees to
show the heroes the way out of the woods, free of charge.
• Interest 3: Catty acquiesces on the medicine but
demands a price be paid. One hero must relinquish a
portion of their life force (all their remaining recoveries)
and she will lead them out of the woods. If the hero has
no recoveries remaining, they can’t make this deal.
• Interest 2: She demands a single crate in exchange for
safe passage.
• Interest 1: Catty is unmoved and demands every crate
on the wagon. If they only have 1 crate she also demands
a portion of one hero’s life force.
• Interest 0: Catty tired of this game and slinks back into
the fog, along with her cats. As the heroes attempt to find
their way out, every time they fail a test in the Montage
Test: The Fog, the wagon loses 1 crate.
If the heroes end the negotiation with Catty’s interest at 4
or higher and make a deal with her, they each gain 1
Victory.
If Catty has agreed to escort the heroes out of the fog, she
disappears into the fog with her cats. Then read or
paraphrase the following aloud:
• “A small grey cat, with a tail hooked like question mark,
slinks out of the fog and sits in front of the wagon,
waiting for you to move.”
• “Torrance nudges the horse forward. You follow the cat
for about five minutes before the fog breaks and the
woods are behind you. The cat meows, pawing at the side
of the cart like it’s asking for a tip.”
If the heroes decide to attack Catty she uses the Wode Hag
stat block, and will retreat into the fog if reduced to 100
Stamina or less.
MONTAGE TEST : THE F OG
If the heroes eschewed negotiation or failed to make a deal
with Catty, they must make their way through the thick
maze of magical fog on their own. The success and failure
limits of this test are listed on the Fog Test Difficulty table.
FOG T EST D IFFICULTY
Heroes Success Limit Failure Limit
Three 3 3
Four 4 4
Five 5 5
Six 6 6
SETTING THE SCENE
• “The further you go down the road the thicker the fog
gets. Hours of boredom pass, and morale is collapsing
among your patrons.”
• “Wolves stalk the cart from the fog’s edge and the horse
is terrified. But you start to notice repeated patterns
depending on which direction you go.”
M ONTAGE CHALLENGES
The following challenges can be part of the montage test:
Hours of Drudgery: It’s hours of fogbanks and nothing
else. Mind numbing. How do you pass the time?
Suggested Characteristics: Reason, Presence. Suggested
Skills: Brag, Perform, Gamble, Music, Any Lore Skill
Mistwolves: Wolves stalk the wagon from the fog and must
be kept away from the horse. Suggested Characteristics:
Strength, Agility, Presence. Suggested Skills: Drive,
Endurance, Gymnastics, Intimidate, Lead
Broken Triangle: An argument has broken out and
Torrance won’t move the wagon until it’s resolved.
Suggested Characteristics: Strength, Presence. Suggested
Skills: Empathize, Lead, Lift, Persuade
Spooked Stallion: The fog is so thick the horse is too
scared to move forward. Suggested Characteristics:
Strength, Presence. Suggested Skills: Drive, Handle
Animals, Intimidate
Fog Logic Puzzle: You start to notice a pattern emerging
depending on the route they take. A clever mind could
solve this logic puzzle. Suggested Characteristics:
Instinct, Reason. Suggested Skills: Alertness, Magic,
Navigate, Search, Track
M ONTAGE TEST O UTCOMES
The montage test has the following outcomes:
Total Success: The fog breaks quickly, and the heroes find
themselves passing a roadside spring with medicinal
herbs growing around it. The heroes gain 1 crate of
medicine and 1 Victory each.
Partial Success: The heroes eventually make it out past the
tree line to a safe place to rest. The heroes may choose
whether each hero loses 1 Recovery or the wagon takes 5
damage.
Total Failure: Exhausted by a week of bad weather
followed by an all-night march through the fog, the
heroes finally break the tree line. The Director decides if
each hero loses 2 Recoveries or the wagon takes 10
damage.
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
P ART F OUR : B UCK ’ S
R IDGE R UN
The Jagged Edge goblin bandits have laid an ambush for
unsuspecting travelers, utilizing a small pass a few miles
outside of Broadhurst. Read or paraphrase the following
aloud:
• “The rain has picked up once again, muddying the road.”
• “Up ahead, the road passes through a small wooded ridge
line. Torrance says, ‘Buck’s Ridge, last landmark before
we hit the farmlands around Broadhurst.’”
This encounter uses the Buck’s Ridge Run map.
S EARCHING FOR GOBLINS
If the heroes head into Buck’s Ridge without caution, the
goblins ambush them in an attempt to kill them and loot the
wagon. Proceed to Battling Goblin Bandits.
Any hero searching for trouble as they enter the pass
should make an Intuition test. The hero who gets the
highest result determines the outcome for the group:
• ≤11: The heroes don’t notice the goblins and are
surprised at the start of the encounter in Battling Goblins
Bandits. Flame walls 1 and 2 appear in front and behind
the wagon as goblin archers ignite oil slicks on the
ground.
• 12-16: The heroes and goblins notice each other at the
same time. No one is surprised. A flame wall 1 appears in
front of the wagon as goblin archers ignite an oil slick.
• 17+: The heroes notice the goblins before the goblins
notice them. The goblins are surprised at the start of the
encounter in Battling Goblin Bandits. A flame wall(1)
a ppears at the start of the second round of combat.
If the heroes are surprised by the goblin ambush read the
following aloud:
• “ Piercing screams and angry words surround you.”
• “Suddenly flaming arrows roll down the hill and in front
of and behind you, igniting oil slicks that create a wall of
flame on either side of the wagon.”
Once the heroes have been made aware of the goblins, read
or paraphrase the following aloud:
• “Goblins holler angrily from the ridge.”
• “A volley of arrows rains down, targeting you.”
BATTLING GOBLIN BANDITS
The goblins have the heroes right where they want them!
They want what’s on that wagon, but unlike the ratfolk,
these goblins have no compunctions about killing.
There are six goblin warriors, eight goblin snipers, and
four goblin stinkers on the ridges, and four goblin
assassins in the bushes on either side of the road.
Raiders Groups
Group Creatures
1 Three goblin warriors
2 Three goblin warriors
3 One goblin stinker
One goblin stinker (captain)
Four goblin snipers (minion group)
4 One goblin stinker
One goblin stinker (captain)
Four goblin snipers (minion group)
5 Two goblin assassins
6 Two goblin assassins
E NCOUNTER A DJUSTMENTS
If this encounter has more or fewer than five heroes, make
the following adjustments:
• For six heroes, add two goblin stinkers as their own
group.
• For four heroes, remove two goblin warriors, one from
each group.
• For three heroes, remove two goblin warriors and two
goblin stinkers, each on from a different group.
UNHEROIC TRIO
Torrance, Myrna, and Hector drive the wagon out of the
pass as quick as they can. If the wagon has 0 Stamina or
crates and takes damage during this encounter, one of the
NPCs is killed instead of a crate being destroyed: first
Torrance, then Hector, then Myrna.
THE M EDICINE WAGON
The goal of this encounter is to get the wagon through
Buck’s Ridge. The following rules apply, in addition to the
rules on the handout, to the wagon in this encounter.
• The wagon’s speed is 8 if it is light, 6 if it is medium, and
4 if it is heavy. It moves forward, toward the east end of
the map, at the end of each round.
• When it has 0 Stamina it is exposed and cannot move
until it is repaired. Whenever the wagon takes damage
while it is exposed, a crate it carries is destroyed.
• A hero can use a main action to perform a quick field
repair when the wagon has 0 stamina. Roll a d6. The
wagon regains that much stamina
FLAME WALL
The goblins have laid down an oil slick which they ignite in
the encounter, creating a fire wall that deals 5 damage to all
creatures and objects that pass through it or start their turn
in it. A hero can use their main action to douse 1 square of
the fire.
TACTICS
During the first round, the goblins use the Goblin Mode
malice feature at the start of their first turn. The warriors
move down from the ridge, attempting to surround the
wagon within the fire walls while the snipers and stinkers
pelt the heroes from either side of the ridges. If they don’t
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
have to use the Charge main action, each uses the Bury the
Point main action until you run out of Malice.
Once the wagon passes fire wall 1 (assuming the heroes
didn’t surprise the goblins), the assassins emerge and try to
hobble the wagon while the warriors, and ranged goblins
keep the heroes occupied.
The goblins attempt to block the wagon and keep it from
escaping while they engage the heroes.
E NDING THE E NCOUNTER
Each group of goblins fights until there is one in the group,
who then flees. Once all goblins have fled or are defeated,
the encounter ends, and each hero earns 1 Victory.
Alternatively, if the wagon moves off the map, the heroes
have successfully evaded the goblins and can safely make
their way to Broadhurst, and each hero earns 1 Victory.
G OBLIN M ALICE M ALICE FEATURES
At the start of any goblin’s turn, you can spend malice to activate one
of the following features.
Goblin Mode ◆ 3 Malice
Each goblin in the encounter gains a +2 bonus to speed until the
end of the round.
Tiny Stabs ◆ 5 Malice
Each enemy in the encounter takes 1 damage for each goblin
adjacent to them.
Swamp Stink ◆ 7 Malice
The encounter map becomes covered in a green mist that lasts
until the end of the round, and which can’t be dispersed by wind.
All areas of the map become difficult terrain for non-goblins, and
each non-goblin on the map must make a Might test.
✦ ≤11 5 poison damage; weakened until mist disappears
★ 12–16 Weakened until mist disappears
✸ 17+ No effect
G OBLIN SNIPER LEVEL 1 M INION ARTILLERY
Goblin, Humanoid EV 3 for four minions
Stamina 3
Speed 5 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 0
With Captain Ranged distance +5 Free Strike 2
Might −2 Agility +2 Reason +0 Intuition +0 Presence −1
Bow (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ Signature
Keywords Ranged, Strike, Weapon
Distance Ranged 10 Target One creature or object per minion
✦ ≤11 2 damage
★ 12–16 4 damage
✸ 17+ 5 damage
Effect If the sniper doesn’t use a move action this turn, the ability
has an edge.
Crafty
The sniper doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks by moving.
G OBLIN ASSASSIN LEVEL 1 HORDE AMBUSHER
Goblin, Humanoid EV 3
Stamina 15
Speed 6 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 0
Free Strike 2
Might −2 Agility +2 Reason +0 Intuition +0 Presence −2
Sword Stab (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ Signature
Keywords Melee, Strike, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature or object
✦ ≤11 4 damage
★ 12–16 6 damage
✸ 17+ 7 damage
Effect This ability deals an additional 2 damage if the assassin has
an edge on the power roll.
Shadow Chains (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ 3 Malice
Keywords Magic, Ranged
Distance Ranged 10 Target Three creatures
✦ ≤11 2 corruption damage; A<0 restrained (save ends)
★ 12–16 4 corruption damage; A<1 restrained (save ends)
✸ 17+ 5 corruption damage; A<2 restrained (save ends)
Crafty
The assassin doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks by moving.
Slip Away
The assassin can take the Hide maneuver even while observed.
G OBLIN STINKER LEVEL 1 HORDE C ONTROLLER
Goblin, Humanoid EV 3
Stamina 10
Speed 5 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 0
Free Strike 1
Might −2 Agility +1 Reason +0 Intuition +0 Presence +2
Toxic Winds (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ Signature
Keywords Area, Magic, Ranged
Distance 3 cube within 15 Target Each enemy in the cube
✦ ≤11 1 poison damage; slide 1
★ 12–16 2 poison damage; slide 2
✸ 17+ 3 poison damage; slide 3
1+ Malice Increase the slide for one target by 1 square for each
malice spent.
Swamp Gas (Maneuver)
Keywords Area, Magic, Ranged
Distance 3 cube within 10 Target Special
Effect The area is filled with a green haze until the start of the
stinker’s next turn or until the stinker is reduced to Stamina 0.
The area is difficult terrain for non-goblin creatures, and each
such creature who moves within the area takes 2 poison
damage for each square moved. The haze can’t be dispersed by
wind.
Crafty
The stinker doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks by moving.
Road to Broadhurst © 2025 MCDM Productions, LLC
G OBLIN WARRIOR LEVEL 1 HORDE HARRIER
Goblin, Humanoid EV 3
Stamina 15
Speed 6 (climb) Size 1S / Stability 0
Free Strike 1
Might −2 Agility +2 Reason +0 Intuition +0 Presence −1
Spear Charge (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ Signature
Keywords Charge, Melee, Strike, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature or object
✦ ≤11 3 damage
★ 12–16 4 damage
✸ 17+ 5 damage
Bury the Point (Main Action) ◆ 2d10 + 2 ◆ 2 Malice
Keywords Melee, Strike, Weapon
Distance Melee 1 Target One creature
✦ ≤11 5 damage; M<0 bleeding (save ends)
★ 12–16 6 damage; M<1 bleeding (save ends)
✸ 17+ 7 damage; M<2 bleeding (save ends)
Crafty
The warrior doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks by moving.
E PILOGUE
With the days of rain and mud quickly receding behind the
heroes, they make their way into the agrarian township of
Broadhurst.
Depending on how heavy with crates the wagon is
determines the final reward.
If they have 5 or more crates, each hero becomes a Local
Hero and gains that title.
If they have 2-4 crates, they get 1 Healing Potion for each
hero and Myrna teaches them the recipe to make more.
If they have 1 crate, Myrna teaches them the recipe to make
Healing Potions.
If the wagon is empty or the NPCs are all dead, the heroes
get nothing.
If the NPCs are alive, they thank the heroes, say their
goodbyes, and head to Torrance’s family farm at the other
end of town.
C REDITS
Design Director: Matthew Colville
Lead Designer: Carlos Cisco
Development: James Introcaso
Sensitivity Consultant: Basil Wright
Cartography: Czepeku, The MAD Cartographer
Community Coordinator: John Champion
MCDM PRODUCTIONS
Willy Abeel: Design
Lars Bakke: Development & Production
Jerod Bennett: Technology
Grace Cheung: Art
Matt Colville: Writing & Design
Robert Djordjevich: Design
Nick De Spain: Art & Art Outsource Management
Josh Gertz: Production
Jason Hasenauer: Art & Art Direction
James Introcaso: Lead Game Designer